So now that we're able to add, fetch and update products,
let's work on deleting them. Now for deleting, you could implement different approaches,
you could add a method to the product class so that you can create a new product object and call delete
on it just as you called save on it
but I will go with a static method and I'll add a static method which I'll name delete by id and where
I expect a product ID as an argument.
Now in here, of course again we need access to the database,
so let's call get db to get access to that one central database connection we configured at the start
and then on the db, again it's time to reach out to the products collection and on that collection,
we want to delete an element.
Now as always, you'll find more in the official docs in the crud operations,
if you click on the documents you see that just as we had insert one, insert many and so on,
we also have delete many and delete one. Now
I don't want to delete many products but exactly one, so I'll delete one product here and you need to
specify a filter now,
so again pass an object where you describe how to find that product
and again it will be our boring ID equal to check here.
Now here product ID is an argument,
so we need to convert it to an objectid manually again by passing it to the objectid constructor
and now mongodb will go ahead and delete the first element
it finds that has this criteria fulfilled.
So I will return here
and of course just as before, we can add then and catch here if we want, we can catch any error and console
log it and we can also work with the result of this operation,
we could console log it, I'll just console log deleted and that will be it.
So now we have the delete by id method,
now we just need to add it.
So in the admin.js
controller file, here the post delete product route, let's comment it back in
or not route,
the action I mean of course. We extract the product ID
and then here we had a different flow,
I first of all found the product here,
now we don't do that anymore,
we just call product delete by ID instead, we pass the prod ID as a string and then we just have our then
block here which won't receive an argument
and yeah that is it, we redirect thereafter.
So let's go back to our application,
let's quickly add a new dummy product with totally invalid and uninteresting data and that fails,
that's an interesting behavior,
let's fix that in a second.
Let's first of all check if deleting works, I get redirected to a page that is not found, yeah makes sense
because obviously working in a controller is not enough,
I need to go to my admin routes and comment in the post delete product route.
So after changing this, let's now click delete and now I get no products here.
Let's confirm in compass by quickly refreshing that page and our product is gone,
so deleting works.
Let's now see what's going wrong when I tried to add that product.